>> Brian Holt: Go to details.js,
and we want to make it so
whenever you click on this nice button
here, that it pops open a module.
So what we're gonna do here
is we're going to import
navigate from @reach/router
>> Brian Holt: And
we're going to import our modal as well.
Modal from ./modal.
>> Brian Holt: Sorry, @reach,
not react, @reach/router.
>> Brian Holt: Okay?
We'll add a new piece of state here,
and it's gonna be called showModal and
we're not gonna initially show it.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, we need one
more piece of state from animal now.
I mean, its URL, so I'm gonna say URL and
get to grab that off of animal type URL.
This is actually the URL that
you will go to to adopt the pet.
Okay, above the render here, we're going
to put a new method called toggle modal.
>> Brian Holt: And we'll just make this
a very quick this.setState of showModal,
and you just want to be
the opposite of whatever
showModal was, so this.state.showModal.
So if it's false, make it true,
and if it's true, make it false.
>> Brian Holt: And then underneath that,
we're gonna make an adopt
function as well.
It's just gonna be an arrow function.
And all it's gonna do is
navigate to this.state.url.
>> Brian Holt: We could have done this
with the redirect component as well,
I wanted to show you both.
>> Brian Holt: I don't think
there is really an advantage.
The React router and the Reach router
people encourage you to use a redirect
component, that's what
they say they prefer.
But I think it's a perfectly good
decision to decide either way.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, down here,
here, inside of media,
we're gonna put showModal as well,
cuz we're gonna grab that out.
>> Brian Holt: So I just add 41 there.
>> Brian Holt: And then below
the description, we're gonna put this.
>> Brian Holt: So
pick up your curly braces here, and
then we're gonna do a ternary.
So if I should showModal,
then display this,
I'm sorry, modal.
And inside of that,
we're going to put our own mark
up of like <h1> Would
you like to adopt name?
>> Brian Holt: Then put a div and
className="buttons".
>> Brian Holt: And
then here, we're gonna say,
button onClick= this.adopt.
>> Brian Holt: And you say, yes.
And then you're gonna say, no, I'm
a monster, and you just toggle the model.
>> Brian Holt: My goal is to
shame someone into buying a pet.
Just kidding,
only buy a pet if you are ready for
one, but please adopt all the pets.
>> Brian Holt: And then afterwards,
after this parenthesis right here,
I put :null, right?
So if you tell React to render null,
as you may guess, it renders nothing.
So if you're showing the modal,
then show the modal.
If not, show modal then show nothing.
>> Brian Holt: Why don't you like that?
>> Brian Holt: Fine, I am a monster.
I don't know why it's doing that.
Then we have to put it so that when you
click on Adopt, here, on this button.
So the onClick here,
you're gonna say this.toggleModal, right?
So whenever someone clicks on
the Adopt button, it shows the modal.
>> Brian Holt: So line 53 here,
it's what I added.
Let's go take a look at
what looks like now.
So we got the goodest boy here,
Fat Boy Slim.
If I click on Adopt Fat Boy Slim,
Would you like to adopt Fatboy Slim?
And you say Yes or No, I'm a monster.
[LAUGH] So if you clicked yes,
it'll navigate to
Fat Boy Slim's
>> Brian Holt: Page.
>> Brian Holt: But if you click on No,
I'm a monster, it closes the modal.
>> Brian Holt: Pretty cool, right?
So just to remphasize what
I think is cool about this,
this modal is now 100% flexible.
Any time that I need to show a modal,
I just pull this in and it just works.
And just to prove my point to you,
if I inspect element here,
>> Brian Holt: Notice
that I have modal and root, and
these are two totally different places.
But this is all happening in here
outside of root, which is really cool.
But because this is on React, like I'm
using functions from this component,
I'm using the name,
which is coming out as components,
I'm using all this stuff inside of it but
it's rendering somewhere else.
It's actually really cool because
if you're doing event listeners, so
let's say I have an event listener
here on div, which is above the modal,
and say onClick.
And all it does is console.log it.
>> Brian Holt: Now, it should still work
where, let's make sure I'm not crazy here.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, so
the click listener is working.
Anywhere I click on the div,
it's gonna show these events.
But if I click into this,
let me just trash this so you can see.
I'm clicking on DOM elements
outside of this div, but
it's still getting dispatched correctly.
So the event delegation actually will
still go through the same React tree.
Cuz React has its own event system.
It looks exactly and it acts exactly the
same but it has nice features like this
where I can actually handle event
delegation outside of that DOM.
That's really cool too.
I don't know why this should be useful,
I'm just fascinated by it.
>> Brian Holt: Great,
any questions about portals?
So this is useful for things like
modals but it also could be useful for
like, maybe you have, again,
like a contextual navigation or
something like that,
you could handle that with a portal.
You could handle a special header or
a special footer or
lots of things like that.
At Netflix, we used portals to render
into the player because the player was
a separate thing, so there's a bunch
of cool stuff you could do with them.
This used to be impossible,
it used to be impossible to
handle these kinds of things.
We actually had to build this crazy
special render that Netflix only used for
a long time to handle that.